# System Telephony

# SIP
## What is a SIP Header?
A SIP Header is a component of a SIP message that is used to convey information about the SIP message. Including the correct SIP Header and correctly formatting these SIP Headers is critical to ensure that requests are successfully routed to the right recipients. We'll try and run through some of the most common SIP Headers in this blogpost.

## Headers for the Standard SIP Call
Usually, an  INVITE message initiates a session—essentially a phone call—on the SIP protocol. While there are many other SIP headers, the nine outlined below supply the minimum required information to initiate  a call over a SIP trunking network. A  BYE request is used to terminate calls.

## To
The To header specifies the recipient of the call.
To: Indicates the intended recipient of the SIP request or response

Format
```
To: “(name)” <sip: (user)@(domain)>
```

## Via
The  Via header identifies a call’s path with the protocol name, protocol version, transport type,  user agent client (UAC), the protocol port for the request and a branch parameter which serves as a unique identifier for each  SIP transaction . The Via header routes SIP responses to the correct device, similar to a return address on a package. If a SIP request is routed through multiple devices, each UAC adds its own VIA header to the request before sending it on.
Via: Provides information about the routing path and transport protocol used in the SIP message

Format
```
Via: SIP/(protocol version)/(transport type) (UAC):(protocol port);branch=(branch number) 
```

## Call-ID
The Call-ID SIP Header creates a globally unique identifier for the call. To ensure that each Call-ID identifier is globally unique, a random number is generated (which often looks like this: f_169eac17a017b0a4e0adfa8_I), and the sender’s IP address is appended to this number. This guarantees that the Call-ID number will be globally unique, since no two devices will have the same IP address.
Call-ID: Generated by the sender, it’s a unique identifier that allows the related SIP messages to be grouped as part of the same call

Format
```
Call-ID: (generated number)@(ip\_address) 
```

## Contact
The Contact header identifies the most direct route for sending future requests to the requesting device. The Contact header specifies a caller domain name or IP address and a transport type.

Format
```
Contact: sip:(user)@(domain);transport=(transport type) 
```

## From
The From header specifies who the call is coming from.
From: Specifies the sender of the SIP request or response

Format
```
From: “(name)” <sip: (user)@(domain)> 
```

## Content-Length
The Content-Length header specifies the size of the message content in bytes. A Content-Length of 0 indicates that there is no message body.

Format
```
Content-Length: (number of bytes in message body) 
```

## CSeq
The CSeq header specifies the number of requests of each type that have been sent. For example, CSeq: 15 INVITE means that is the 15th invite request. The number increases by one for each additional request of the same type.
CSeq: Contains a sequence number and method (such as INVITE, ACK, and BYE) to indicate the order of SIP messages in a transaction

Format
```
CSeq: (number) (request type) 
```

## Max-Forwards
The Max-Forwards header limits the number of times a request can be forwarded on its way to the recipient. The number is reduced by one each time the request is forwarded. The Max-Forwards header prevents a request from endlessly circling the SIP network if the recipient cannot be found. The default value is 70.

Format
```
Max-Forwards: (maximum number of forwards) 
```

## Content-Type
If the message has a body, the Content-Type header identifies how the body is formatted. A text message might be identified as text/HTML or an application making a call might identify the content as application/SDP.

Format
```
Content-Type: (type of content)
```

# Kamailio
This tutorial collects the functions and parameters exported by Kamailio core to configuration file.

## Structure
The structure of the kamailio.cfg can be seen as three parts:

* global parameters
* modules settings
* routing blocks

### Global Parameters Section
This is the first part of the configuration file, containing the parameters for the core of kamailio and custom global parameters.

Typically this is formed by directives of the form:

```
name=value
```

The name corresponds to a core parameter as listed in one of the next sections of this document. If a name is not matching a core parameter, then Kamailio will not start, rising an error during startup.

The value is typically an integer, boolean or a string

### Modules Settings Section
This is the second section of the configuration file, containing the directives to load modules and set their parameters.

It contains the directives loadmodule and modparam. In the default configuration file starts with the line setting the path to modules (the assignment to mpath core parameter).

Example of content:
```
loadmodule "debugger.so"
...
modparam("debugger", "cfgtrace", 1)

```

### Routing Blocks Section
This is the last section of the configuration file, typically the biggest one, containing the routing blocks with the routing logic for SIP traffic handled by Kamailio.

The only mandatory routing block is request_route, which contains the actions for deciding the routing for SIP requests.

See the chapter Routing Blocks in this document for more details about what types of routing blocks can be used in the configuration file and their role in routing SIP traffic and Kamailio behaviour.

Example of content:
```
request_route {

    # per request initial checks
    route(REQINIT);

    ...
}

branch_route[MANAGE_BRANCH] {
    xdbg("new branch [$T_branch_idx] to $ru\n");
    route(NATMANAGE);
}
```

## Mysql Module
This is a module which provides MySQL connectivity for Kamailio. It implements the DB API defined in Kamailio.

### Install 
1. install mysql 
2. setup kamailio
in kamailio.config

    Pre-Processor
    ```
    #!define WITH_MYSQL
    ```

## SecFilter Module
### Overview
This module has been designed to offer an additional layer of security over our communications. To achieve this, the following features are available:

- Blacklist to block user agents, IP addresses, countries, domains and users.
- Whitelist to allow user agents, IP addresses, countries, domains and users.
- Blacklist of destinations where the called number is not allowed.
- SQL injection attacks prevention.

When a function is called, it will be searched in the whitelist. If the value is not found, then the blacklist will be searched.

All data will be loaded into memory when the module is started. There is an RPC reload command to update all the data from database. It is also possible to add new data to the blacklist or whitelist using other RPC commands.

### Dependencies
The following modules must be loaded before this module:
* database -- Any db_* database module


### Database setup
Before running Kamailio with the secfilter module, it is necessary to setup the database table where the module will read the blacklist data from. In order to do that, if the table was not created by the installation script or you choose to install everything by yourself you can use the secfilter-create.sql SQL script in the database directories in the kamailio/scripts folder as a template. Database and table name can be set with module parameters so they can be changed, but the name of the columns must match the ones in the SQL script. You can also find the complete database documentation on the project webpage, https://www.kamailio.org/docs/db-tables/kamailio-db-devel.html.

Example 1.25. Example database content - secfilter table
```
		...
		+----+-----------+-----------+------------------+
		| id | action    | type      | data             |
		+----+-----------+-----------+------------------+
		|  1 | 0         | 2         | 1.1.1.1          |
		|  2 | 0         | 0         | friendly-scanner |
		|  3 | 0         | 0         | pplsip           |
		|  4 | 0         | 0         | sipcli           |
		|  5 | 0         | 4         | sipvicious       |
		|  6 | 0         | 1         | ps               |
		|  7 | 0         | 3         | 5.56.57.58       |
		|  8 | 1         | 0         | asterisk pbx     |
		|  9 | 1         | 2         | sip.mydomain.com |
		| 10 | 2         | 0         | 555123123        |
		| 11 | 2         | 0         | 555998776        |
		+----+-----------+-----------+------------------+
		...
```

Action values are:
* 0 (blacklist)
* 1 (whitelist)
* 2 (destination)

Type values are:
* 0 (user-agent)
* 1 (country)
* 2 (domain)
* 3 (IP address)
* 4 (user)

### Parameters
#### db_url (string)
Database URL.
Default value is ""
```
		...
		modparam("secfilter", "db_url", "mysql://user:pass@localhost/kamailio")
```

